# Service Applications 

Servive applications are Tizen .NET applications with no graphical user interface that run in the background. They can be very useful in performing activities (such as getting sensor data in the background) that need to run periodically or continuously, but do not require any user intervention.

The main Service Application API features include: 
-  Application States:

    A Tizen native service application has several different states which it transitions through during its life-cycle
- Event Callbacks:
  
  The service application can receive both basic system events and application state change events. You can register handlers for these events to react them. 

Service appliction can ve explicitly launched by a UI aplication. They can also be launched conditionally. The service application type allows to create reusable and independent parts which is really important in bigger projects where we can easly split responsibilites of the application to different parts. As an example, consider the speedometer application designed for average speed measurement. Service part in this case is responsible for reading speed from the device GPS module. It also calculates average speed. The UI communicates with the service when it is visible and shows measured values. That approach allows to reuse module between different applications such as a cyclist application, automotive solutions, sport activity apps. Core module with buisness logic works in the background and do designed things until it will be closed by the system evens like `OnLowMemory` or `OnLowBattery` wher UI app could be accidenally closed by the user.

# Code snippets 

Following code snippets shows the service application backbone generated from the Tizen templates.
The service template creates callback stubs to fill. Service application type is defined in the `Tizen.Applications` namespace, so it should be included at the top of the file. 

```csharp
using Tizen.Applications;
```

The `ServiceApplication` class has no UI, so `OnPause()` and `OnResume()` are not defined. Besides of that you can see here similar callbacks to other app types like `OnCreate()` and `OnTerminate()` called lifecycle evens and `OnLowBattery()`, `OnLowMemory()`, `OnLocaleChanged()` called system events because they are generated by the operating system.

```csharp
namespace servicesample
{
    class App : ServiceApplication
    {
        protected override void OnCreate()
        {
            base.OnCreate();
        }
```

```csharp
        protected override void OnAppControlReceived(AppControlReceivedEventArgs e)
        {
            base.OnAppControlReceived(e);
        }
```

```csharp
        protected override void OnLocaleChanged(LocaleChangedEventArgs e)
        {
            base.OnLocaleChanged(e);
        }

        protected override void OnLowBattery(LowBatteryEventArgs e)
        {
            base.OnLowBattery(e);
        }

        protected override void OnLowMemory(LowMemoryEventArgs e)
        {
            base.OnLowMemory(e);
        }

        protected override void OnRegionFormatChanged(RegionFormatChangedEventArgs e)
        {
            base.OnRegionFormatChanged(e);
        }

        protected override void OnTerminate()
        {
            base.OnTerminate();
        }
```

```csharp
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            App app = new App();
            app.Run(args);
        }
    }
}
```

`OnAppConrolReceived()` callback is the most important callack here because it is responsible for 
data exchange between applications. The UI application which use service could read the data using this callback.

# Service Applications 

Servive applications are Tizen .NET applications with no graphical user interface that run in the background. The can be very useful in performing activities (such as getting sensor data in the background) that need to run periodically or continuously, but do not require any user intervention. 

The main Service Application API features include: 
-  Application States:

    A Tizen native service application has several different states which it transitions through during its life-cycle
- Event Callbacks:
  
  The service application can receive both basic system events and application state change events. You can register handlers for these events to react them. 

Service appliction can ve explicitly launched by a UI aplication. They can also be launched conditionally. 

The user cann check the running service applications in the task switcher, however, no events occur if the user selects a service application from the task switcher. The main menu does not contain icons for service applications. Multiple service applications can be running simultaneously with other service and UI applications. 

Application States 
Trzeba narysowac: 
Ready -> create() Created-> app control cb -> Runing . Terminated -> 

Zrobic tabelke z opisem stanów 
READY -> application is launcher 
Created -> application started the main loop
Running -> applicaiton runs in the background 
Terminated -> application is terminated 

Because a service application has no UI, neither does it have a pause state.  Basically, the service application is running in the background by its nature; so the platform does not allow running the service application.

Event Callbacks
You can control the service application execution by monitoring and reacting to application state change and system events.

The following table lists the application state change events.

Table: Application states

Callback	Description
`OnCreate`	Used to take necessary actions before the main event loop starts. Place the initialization code here.

`OnAppControlReceived()`	Used to take necessary actions when a service call arrives from another application.

`OnTerminate()` Used to take necessary actions when the application is terminating. Release all resources, especially any allocations and shared resources, so that other running applications can fully any shared resources.
The following table lists the system events.

Table: System events

Callback	Description
`OnLowMemory()`	Used to take necessary actions in low memory situations.
Save data in the main memory to a persistent memory or storage, to avoid data loss in case the Tizen platform Low Memory Killer kills your application to get more free memory. Release any cached data in the main memory to secure more free memory.
`OnLowBattery`() Used to take necessary actions in low battery situations.
Save data in the main memory to a persistent memory or storage, to avoid data loss in case the power goes off completely. Stop heavy CPU consumption or power consumption activities to save the remaining power.


## Application Attributes
Describe your service application attributes in the manifest file. The attributes determine the application behavior. The following code example illustrates how you can define the attributes:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns="http://tizen.org/ns/packages" api-version="6" package="org.tizen.example.servicesample" version="1.0.0">
  <profile name="common" />
  <service-application appid="org.tizen.example.servicesample"
					exec="servicesample.dll"
					type="dotnet"
					multiple="false"
					taskmanage="false"
					nodisplay="true"
                    api-version="8">
    <label>servicesample</label>
    <icon>servicesample.png</icon>
  </service-application>
</manifest>
```

Pay specific attention to the following attributes:

auto-restart

If set to true, the application restarts whenever it terminates abnormally. If the application is running, it is launched after installing or updating the package.

on-boot

If set to true, the application launches on boot time, and after installing or updating the package. The application does not start if this attribute is removed after updating the package.

he following table defines the behaviors resulting from the attribute combinations:

Table: Attribute combinations

auto-restart	on-boot	After normal termination	On forced close	On Reboot	After package installation	After package update
FALSE	FALSE	Not launched automatically	Not launched automatically	Not launched after reboot	Not launched	Not launched automatically
FALSE	TRUE	Not launched automatically	Not launched automatically	Launched automatically after reboot	Launched	Launched automatically
TRUE	FALSE	Launched automatically	Launched automatically	Not launched after reboot	Not launched	Launched automatically
TRUE	TRUE	Launched automatically	Launched automatically	Launched automatically after reboot	Launched	Launched automatically

Monitoring Events
To monitor application state change and system events:

Add callbacks for application state change events:

Service application initialization callback

This callback is called when the application is launched. Use the callback to write the necessary initialization code, such as setting up the dbus connection.

The callback returns a Boolean value. If there is a critical error during the launch, the return is false, thereby cancelling the launch. Otherwise, the return is true.

bool
service_app_create(void *data)
{
    dlog_print(DLOG_DEBUG, LOG_TAG, "%s", __func__);

    return true;
}
Service application termination callback

This callback is called when the application terminates. Use the callback to release all resources, especially any allocations and shared resources used by other applications.

The service_app_exit() function quits the application main loop internally.

void
service_app_terminate(void *data)
{
    dlog_print(DLOG_DEBUG, LOG_TAG, "%s", __func__);
    service_app_exit();

    return;
}
Service request callback

This callback is called when the service application receives an app_control service request from another application.

void
service_app_control(app_control_h app_control, void *data)
{
    dlog_print(DLOG_DEBUG, LOG_TAG, "%s", __func__);
    service_app_exit();

    return;
}
Add callbacks for system events:

Low memory callback

This callback is called when the device is low on memory.

void
service_app_low_memory_callback(void *data)
{
    dlog_print(DLOG_DEBUG, LOG_TAG, "%s", __func__);
    service_app_exit();

    return;
}
Low battery callback

This callback is called when the device is low on battery power.

void
service_app_low_battery_callback(void *data)
{
    dlog_print(DLOG_DEBUG, LOG_TAG, "%s", __func__);
    service_app_exit();

    return;
}
Set the application state change event callbacks in the service_app_event_callback_s structure. The structure is passed to the function that starts the service application.

You can register the system event callbacks with the service_app_add_event_handler() function.

int
main(int argc, char* argv[])
{
    appdata_s ad = {0,};
    service_app_lifecycle_callback_s event_callback = {0,};

    dlog_print(DLOG_DEBUG, LOG_TAG, "%s", __func__);

    event_callback.create = service_app_create;
    event_callback.terminate = service_app_terminate;
    event_callback.app_control = service_app_control;

    dlog_print(DLOG_DEBUG, LOG_TAG, "service_app_main() is called.");

    return service_app_main(argc, argv, &event_callback, &ad);
}
